Listeners and Stagers
We’ll begin our tour of Empire with a
brief discussion of listeners and stagers.
As with Metasploit’s multi/handler,
listeners accept inbound connections
from various Empire agents.
Stagers are small pieces of code
generated by Empire
that are executed on the victim
and connect back to a listener.
They set up a connection
between the victim and the attacker
and perform additional tasks
to facilitate the transfer
of a staged payload.
To begin an Empire session,
we will first enter the listeners context.
Then we’ll print available listeners with uselistener
followed by a Space and a double Tab
to engage Empire’s tab completion feature.
The http listener is
the most basic listener,
which communicates through
a series of HTTP GET
and POST requests to
simulate legitimate HTTP traffic.
Once we’ve decided on a listener,
we can pass its name to the
uselistener command to select it.
With our listener selected,
we can run info to display
information and syntax.
There are many available options,
but most are already set or are optional.
The most important parameters are
Host and Port,
which are used to set the
local IP address or hostname
and the port number of the listener,
respectively.
We can set the Host value
by running “set Host”
followed by our local IP address.
There are additional settings
worth noting.
DefaultDelay sets the
wait interval callback time
from the compromised host to the listener.
This feature attempts to simulate
more legitimate HTTP traffic.
The DefaultJitter setting
is a random offset to DefaultDelay
designed to make the traffic seem
less programmatically generated.
Setting KillDate will self-terminate
the listeners on all
compromised hosts on the specified date.
This is especially useful when performing
cleanup after a penetration test.
Once the options are set,
we can start the listener
with the execute command.
We can then return to the
main listener menu with back.
Lastly, we can list all available stagers with usestager
followed by a Space and two Tabs.
Empire supports stagers for
Windows, Linux, and OS X.
Windows stagers include support for
standard DLLs, HTLM Applications,
Microsoft Office macros,
and more exotic destinations such as
the USB Rubber Ducky.
To get an idea of how this works,
let’s try out the
Windows BAT Launcher stager.
After selecting the stager,
we can review the options
with the info command.
We can configure the Listener parameter
with “set Listener” followed by
the name of the listener we just created.
Finally, we’ll create the stager
with the execute command.
To better understand the stager
we just created,
let’s take a look at the generated
launcher.bat file.
The stager is a base64-encoded
PowerShell command string.
The first-stage payload
will connect to the listener
and fetch the rest of the
Empire agent code.